README.md, before:

# System FR [![Build Status][larabot-img]][larabot-ref]

![System FR's logo](logo/small.png?raw=true)

### Description

This project aims to formalize in Coq part of the [Stainless project](https://github.com/epfl-lara/stainless). It describes a call-by-value lambda-calculus and defines a rich type system (based on computations) that describes behaviors of lambda-calculus terms. Supported types include: System F polymorphism, recursive types, infinite intersections, refinement and dependent types, equality types.

### Requirements

The proofs require Coq and Coq-Equations, which can be installed using `opam` with the `coq` and `coq-equations` packages. Some instructions are available [here](https://github.com/coq/coq/wiki/Installation-of-Coq-on-Linux) and [there](https://github.com/mattam82/Coq-Equations).

* Coq 8.14.0
* Coq-Equations 1.3.0+8.14

### Compiling the Proofs

After installing Coq, you can compile the proofs using:

```
./configure
make -j4     # should take around 25 minutes
```

### Overview of the proofs

All trees (for terms and for types) are defined in [Trees.v](https://github.com/epfl-lara/SystemFR/blob/master/Trees.v). The operational semantics is given in [SmallStep.v](https://github.com/epfl-lara/SystemFR/blob/master/SmallStep.v). The semantic definition of types is given in [ReducibilityDefinition.v](https://github.com/epfl-lara/SystemFR/blob/master/ReducibilityDefinition.v). We then prove soundness of inference rules for these types in the `Erased*.v` files (for erased terms) and in the `Annotated*.v` files (for annotated terms).

The file [dependencies.pdf](https://github.com/epfl-lara/SystemFR/blob/master/dependencies.pdf) has an overview of the dependencies between all files.


### Proofs for Scala Dependent Types project

We prove the following properties and the soundness of the typing rules.
We rely on the following assumptions:

* The terms and types appearing in goals/context satisfy some well-formedness conditions
* The types are appearing in goals/context are non-empty
* Inferred types are always syntactically singletons
* During delta-beta reduction, the term being evaluated has type `T_top`
  (or equivalently, another arbitrary type)
* In `untangle` ([Untangle.v](Untangle.v)), we know which terms have the Tau property, and we rely on the abstract model of `update` and `tlookup` specified using axioms in [TauProperty.v](TauProperty.v)

#### Properties

* `widen` gives a larger type `widen_open_subtype` in [InferApp.v](InferApp.v)
* `delta_beta_reduction` gives observationally equivalent terms: `delta_beta_obs_equiv` in [DeltaBetaReduction.v](DeltaBetaReduction.v)
* `untangle` returns an equivalent type `untangle_open_equivalent_types` in [Untangle.v](Untangle.v)

#### Normalization Rules

* NBase: `open_nbase1` and `open_nbase2` in [NormalizationBase.v](NormalizationBase.v)
* NExists1: `open_nexists_1` in [NormalizationExists.v](NormalizationExists.v)
* NExists2: `open_nexists_2` in [NormalizationExists.v](NormalizationExists.v)
* NPi: `open_npi` in [NormalizationPi.v](NormalizationPi.v)
* NCons: `open_ncons` in [NormalizationList.v](NormalizationList.v)
* NSing: `open_nsing` in [NormalizationSing.v](NormalizationSing.v)
* NMatch1: `open_nmatch_1` in [NormalizationMatch.v](NormalizationMatch.v)
* NMatch2: `open_nmatch_2` in [NormalizationMatch.v](NormalizationMatch.v)
* NMatch3: `open_nmatch_3` in [NormalizationMatch.v](NormalizationMatch.v)

#### Inference Rules

* TVar: `open_tvar` in [InferMisc.v](InferMisc.v)
* TAbs: `open_tabs` in [InferMisc.v](InferMisc.v)
* TApp: `open_tapp` in [InferApp.v](InferApp.v)
* TLet `open_tlet` in [InferApp.v](InferApp.v)
* TNil: `open_tnil` in [ErasedList.v](ErasedList.v)
* TCons: `open_tcons` in [ErasedList.v](ErasedList.v)
* TDots: `open_append_key` in [TauProperty.v](TauProperty.v)
* TFix: `open_tfix` in [InferFix.v](InferFix.v)
* TMatch: `open_tmatch` in [InferMatch.v](InferMatch.v)
* TCheck: `open_subtype_reducible` in [ReducibilitySubtype.v](ReducibilitySubtype.v)

#### Subtyping Rules

* SubTop: `open_subtype` in [SubtypeMisc.v](SubtypeMisc.v)
* SubRefl: `open_subrefl` in [SubtypeMisc.v](SubtypeMisc.v)
* SubSing: `open_subsing` in [SubtypeMisc.v](SubtypeMisc.v)
* SubCons1: `open_subcons1` in [SubtypeList.v](SubtypeList.v)
* SubCons2: `open_subcons2` in [SubtypeList.v](SubtypeList.v)
* SubPi: `open_subpi` in [SubtypePi.v](SubtypePi.v)
* SubExistsLeft: `open_sub_exists_left` in [SubtypeExists](SubtypeExists.v)
* SubExistsRight: `open_sub_exists_right` in [SubtypeExists](SubtypeExists.v)
* SubMatch: `open_submatch` in [SubtypeMatch.v](SubtypeMatch.v)
* SubNorm: `open_subnorm` in [SubtypeNorm.v](SubtypeNorm.v)


[larabot-img]: http://laraquad4.epfl.ch:9000/epfl-lara/SystemFR/status/master
[larabot-ref]: http://laraquad4.epfl.ch:9000/epfl-lara/SystemFR/builds

Commit message:

Update to Rocq 9.0.0 (#17)
* Fix errors in Rocq 9.0.0

* Fix warnings in Rocq 9.0.0

* Update to Rocq 9.0.0

* Add Dockerfile

* Setup GitHub Actions

* Disable notation warnings

README.md, after:

# System FR [![Build Status][larabot-img]][larabot-ref]

![System FR's logo](logo/small.png?raw=true)

### Description

This project aims to formalize in the Rocq Prover part of the [Stainless project](https://github.com/epfl-lara/stainless). It describes a call-by-value lambda-calculus and defines a rich type system (based on computations) that describes behaviors of lambda-calculus terms. Supported types include: System F polymorphism, recursive types, infinite intersections, refinement and dependent types, equality types.

### Requirements

The proofs require [Rocq](https://rocq-prover.org) and [Rocq-Equations](https://github.com/mattam82/Coq-Equations), which can be installed using `opam`:

```
opam repo add rocq-released https://rocq-prover.org/opam/released
opam pin add -yn rocq-prover 9.0.0
opam install rocq-equations.1.3.1+9.0 -y
```

See [“Installing the Rocq Prover and its packages”](https://rocq-prover.org/docs/using-opam) for more details.

### Docker

Alternatively, you can also use the provided [Dockerfile](./Dockerfile) to build a Docker image with all dependencies installed:

```
docker build -t systemfr .
docker run -v "$(pwd)":/theories systemfr
```

### Compiling the Proofs

After installing Rocq, you can compile the proofs using:

```
./configure
make -j8     # should take around 10 minutes
```

### Overview of the proofs

All trees (for terms and for types) are defined in [Trees.v](https://github.com/epfl-lara/SystemFR/blob/master/Trees.v). The operational semantics is given in [SmallStep.v](https://github.com/epfl-lara/SystemFR/blob/master/SmallStep.v). The semantic definition of types is given in [ReducibilityDefinition.v](https://github.com/epfl-lara/SystemFR/blob/master/ReducibilityDefinition.v). We then prove soundness of inference rules for these types in the `Erased*.v` files (for erased terms) and in the `Annotated*.v` files (for annotated terms).

The file [dependencies.pdf](https://github.com/epfl-lara/SystemFR/blob/master/dependencies.pdf) has an overview of the dependencies between all files.


### Proofs for Scala Dependent Types project

We prove the following properties and the soundness of the typing rules.
We rely on the following assumptions:

* The terms and types appearing in goals/context satisfy some well-formedness conditions
* The types are appearing in goals/context are non-empty
* Inferred types are always syntactically singletons
* During delta-beta reduction, the term being evaluated has type `T_top`
  (or equivalently, another arbitrary type)
* In `untangle` ([Untangle.v](Untangle.v)), we know which terms have the Tau property, and we rely on the abstract model of `update` and `tlookup` specified using axioms in [TauProperty.v](TauProperty.v)

#### Properties

* `widen` gives a larger type `widen_open_subtype` in [InferApp.v](InferApp.v)
* `delta_beta_reduction` gives observationally equivalent terms: `delta_beta_obs_equiv` in [DeltaBetaReduction.v](DeltaBetaReduction.v)
* `untangle` returns an equivalent type `untangle_open_equivalent_types` in [Untangle.v](Untangle.v)

#### Normalization Rules

* NBase: `open_nbase1` and `open_nbase2` in [NormalizationBase.v](NormalizationBase.v)
* NExists1: `open_nexists_1` in [NormalizationExists.v](NormalizationExists.v)
* NExists2: `open_nexists_2` in [NormalizationExists.v](NormalizationExists.v)
* NPi: `open_npi` in [NormalizationPi.v](NormalizationPi.v)
* NCons: `open_ncons` in [NormalizationList.v](NormalizationList.v)
* NSing: `open_nsing` in [NormalizationSing.v](NormalizationSing.v)
* NMatch1: `open_nmatch_1` in [NormalizationMatch.v](NormalizationMatch.v)
* NMatch2: `open_nmatch_2` in [NormalizationMatch.v](NormalizationMatch.v)
* NMatch3: `open_nmatch_3` in [NormalizationMatch.v](NormalizationMatch.v)

#### Inference Rules

* TVar: `open_tvar` in [InferMisc.v](InferMisc.v)
* TAbs: `open_tabs` in [InferMisc.v](InferMisc.v)
* TApp: `open_tapp` in [InferApp.v](InferApp.v)
* TLet `open_tlet` in [InferApp.v](InferApp.v)
* TNil: `open_tnil` in [ErasedList.v](ErasedList.v)
* TCons: `open_tcons` in [ErasedList.v](ErasedList.v)
* TDots: `open_append_key` in [TauProperty.v](TauProperty.v)
* TFix: `open_tfix` in [InferFix.v](InferFix.v)
* TMatch: `open_tmatch` in [InferMatch.v](InferMatch.v)
* TCheck: `open_subtype_reducible` in [ReducibilitySubtype.v](ReducibilitySubtype.v)

#### Subtyping Rules

* SubTop: `open_subtype` in [SubtypeMisc.v](SubtypeMisc.v)
* SubRefl: `open_subrefl` in [SubtypeMisc.v](SubtypeMisc.v)
* SubSing: `open_subsing` in [SubtypeMisc.v](SubtypeMisc.v)
* SubCons1: `open_subcons1` in [SubtypeList.v](SubtypeList.v)
* SubCons2: `open_subcons2` in [SubtypeList.v](SubtypeList.v)
* SubPi: `open_subpi` in [SubtypePi.v](SubtypePi.v)
* SubExistsLeft: `open_sub_exists_left` in [SubtypeExists](SubtypeExists.v)
* SubExistsRight: `open_sub_exists_right` in [SubtypeExists](SubtypeExists.v)
* SubMatch: `open_submatch` in [SubtypeMatch.v](SubtypeMatch.v)
* SubNorm: `open_subnorm` in [SubtypeNorm.v](SubtypeNorm.v)


[larabot-img]: http://laraquad4.epfl.ch:9000/epfl-lara/SystemFR/status/master
[larabot-ref]: http://laraquad4.epfl.ch:9000/epfl-lara/SystemFR/builds
